Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I have the great privilege today of introducing
to you.
I want you to meet a very good friend of mine in the United States Senate, an able senator
from the state of Michigan, Senator Pat McNamara.
Pat is sure as good to have you with us, and I'm glad to have, for my people in Tennessee,
to have a chance of seeing you and of talking with you for a little while.
Well thanks, Mr. President.
Certainly a pleasure to be here with you today.
Senator McNamara, the first time I had the privilege of meeting him, I went up to Flint,
Michigan in 1954, when he was a candidate for the United States Senate at which time he
was elected.
And we had a large audience, so you remember Pat at the auditorium, and I was trying to
get in to make a speech, but Senator McNamara was talking about problems of the age and
age it, and how long did you keep me standing up before I got a chance?
Well, I tried to hurry, yes, because I was very conscious of the fact that this was your
audience, but I had such fine opportunity to talk to him about something that really bothered
me, but I guess we kept you waiting the best part of 45 minutes.
I like at least that, but it was a lot of fun anyway.
Anyway, Senator McNamara is one of our able senators, and as soon as he got to Senate,
he asked for the formation of a special committee to study problems of the age and ageing.
And you were the chairman of that committee.
That's right.
Tell us some of the findings of your committee, Pat.
Well, we find that there are 16 million Americans who are in this category of the ageing,
who have great problems that our society has overlooked for a number of years.
One of the great problems.
Well, we have many more thanks to medicine and good medication.
More people are living longer now than they used to.
Oh, yes.
At the turn of the century, we had only about 3 million in this category of 65 and over.
And this is an indication about fast, this is just snowballing, Senator.
Well, they certainly need someone to be studying and thinking about their particular problems.
How about the financial income of people in that generally, in that class, Senator McNamara?
Well, our studies have indicated up to now, Senator Keepover, that 3 out of 5, 60 percent
of these people have a money income of less than $1,000 a year.
So you see, they really have income problems.
And then let's talk about some of the other problems.
I know the 4-AND bill, which I didn't go along with, at least I wasn't sure about the
approach of it, is I've been killed in the house.
Are you considering something in the nature of trying to provide health facilities or opportunities
for these people?
Yes.
Senator, we think that this is one of the real problems and one of the issues that has to
be mad and solved.
And while we don't subscribe any more than you do to the total package, so-called 4-AND bill,
we do think that this approach, this through the social security system, is the proper approach
for the solution of providing some relief for people in this age category.
And then there are several bills before our committee dealing with that subject in this
manner.
Now there are about three or four million people who are uncovered, not covered by social
security.
Would you like some provision for them also?
We hope to be able to include an 8-Bill that we will probably introduce in the next
few days, Senator.
The inclusion in our plan of these people as well.
And then, well, that's one of the great problems and we have the problem that they can't
work on social security, and earn more than $1,200.
I guess.
Many, everybody agrees that that should be raised.
And I want to say now, while I have a chance that you are making a great contribution
in your studies of drug prices, because these people who have crippling diseases, arthritis
and such things, constantly are buying drugs.
And your studies indicate that there has been an increase up to 1,000 percent, I guess,
between the cost and the retail price.
And they do appreciate our testimony as full of the indications.
They do appreciate your efforts to do something for them to say.
We appreciate your backing.
I wish we could talk about more problems with that all the time.
We have, thank you very much, Senator Pat McNamara.
Thank you.